docs: using AsyncAPI with Kafka (#2252)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/tutorials/configure-asyncapi-kafka.md

---
title: Configuring Schemas for Kafka messages using AsyncAPI
description: In this tutorial, you'll learn how to configure an AsyncAPI document for Kafka messages.
weight: 80
---

> ## Introduction

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

we usually don't use the "introduction" sub-section/heading, the content at the beginning of the document is often seen as the introduction section, does that make sense?

Author: We have actually followed a similar structure in all our previous tutorials, so I think it's a good idea to keep the `Introduction` heading.

> In this tutorial, you will learn how to create a schema document for Kafka Messages using AsyncAPI. Additionally, you will learn about event-driven architecture, pub/sub model, and brokers concerning Kafka. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will learn how to create a schema document for Kafka Messages using AsyncAPI. Additionally, you will also learn about event-driven architecture, pub/sub model, and brokers in relation to Kafka. 
```

  
Let’s assume, you have a service that publishes data to a Kafka topic whenever a new user signs up into the application.

Basically, you want to build a system that can track the users who have signed up for your application, the entire flow of the application would be:

- You will implement an event-driven architecture with a message broker in its center. As a central piece, the broker will act as an orchestrator for sending and receiving messages between different system parts. 
  
- The service will publish information whenever the user signs up to the broker.
  

> - Your application will connect to the broker and receive a stream of events from the users who have signed up. 

Reviewer: You may wanna unify these lines to make it more cohesive. It felt like I was reading in a direction and skipped or jump, make sense? Tie the initial sentences above and flow the content to the points.

Author: I'll try replacing the above bullet points with a diagram

> ## Background Context

Reviewer 2: In AsyncAPI, we observe sentence capitalization for headers in our docs. So it will be `Background context`. Please update all headers accordingly. 😄

[Event-driven architecture (EDA)](/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures) is a design pattern that revolves around the production, detection, and reaction to events over time. It consists of three main components: a message broker, event publishers, and subscribers, which together serve as the backbone for event exchange within different services. 

[Message brokers](/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#message-broker) facilitate asynchronous communications between services, meaning that the sending service doesn't have to wait for the receiving service's response. This allows multiple services to talk to each other directly, even if they are written in different languages. A great example of such a message broker is Apache Kafka. [Apache Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/) is a distributed system that is used by thousands of companies for their event-driven system.

> [Publish/Subscribe (Pub/Sub)](/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#publishersubscriber) is a typical model in EDAs, providing flexible coupling between publishers and subscribers. In this model, the publishers of event notifications act as publishers and the consumers act as corresponding subscribers.

Author: Before diving into the core part I want the readers to know what EDAs and related terms like Brokers, Pub/Sub are, but I am not sure if it is a good idea to mention them in every article we write. 

Does adding the above definitions in the background description make sense? Or is there any other way?

Reviewer: Depends on the audience you are addressing to. If you expect your target audience to have some sort of familiarity with EDAs, then probably not a good idea to have them here but we tend to keep our documentation reader friendly and agnostic so it shouldn't be a issue :) But again, better assess the target audience and the level of familiarity

## Creating AsyncAPI document for Kafka

> In this section, you’ll create an AsyncAPI document to describe the UserSignUp API. The same document can be later used to generate code and documentation as per requirement. 

Reviewer: Make sure to use backticks throughout the document wherever required😄
```suggestion
In this section, you’ll create an AsyncAPI document to describe the `UserSignUp` API. The same document can be later used to generate code and documentation as per requirement. 
```

### Step 1: Define AsyncAPI Version, API Information, and Server

Initially, you need to describe your application, including the AsyncAPI version, the info about the document, and the server your application is based upon.

```
asyncapi: "3.0.0"
info:
  title: "User Signup API"
  version: "1.0.0"
  description: |
    The API notifies you whenever a new user signups into the application
servers:
  kafkaServer:

>     host: kafka://test.mykafkacluster.org:8092/

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
```

    description: "Kafka Server"
    protocol: kafka
```

In the above snippet:

- The `asyncapi` field indicates that you are using AsyncAPI version 3.0.0.
  
- The `info` field provides information about the API. Here the the APIs `title`, `version`, and `description` are being defined.
  

> - The `server` field specifies the details of the server, including the `hostname`, `description`, and the `protocol` that is being used i.e. Kafka.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The `server` field specifies the details of the server, including the `host`, `description`, and the `protocol` that is being used i.e. Kafka.
```

### Step 2: Define Channels and Operations

> Next, let's move on to the channels and operations section. The channels are like topics in Kafka, they are the routes to which your API will be publishing/subscribing. The Operations section is used to describe a specific operation like how the services must interact with the channels.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, let's move on to the channels and operations section. The channel addresses are the topics in Kafka, they are the routes to which your API will be sending/receiving. The Operations section is used to describe a specific operation like how the services must interact with the channels.
```

```
operations:
  onUserSignedUp:
    action: receive
    channel:
      $ref: "#/channels/userSignedUp"

>     messages:
>       - $ref: "#/components/messages/userSignedUp"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

You don't need this.

channels:
  userSignedUp:

>     description: When the User Signs up

Reviewer 3: Let's move the message definition to the channel instead and add an address:

```suggestion
    description: When the User Signs up
    address: 'user_signedup'
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: "#/components/messages/userSignedUp"
```

```

In the above snippet:

> - The `operation` object specifies onUserSignedUp operation. The `action` property suggests that the operation will be receiving the information. The `channel` and `message` properties point to the channel where the operation occurs and the message associated with the operation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The `operation` object specifies onUserSignedUp operation. The `action` property suggests that the operation will be receiving the information. The `channel` property points to the channel where the operation occurs.
```

> - The `channels` object describes the userSignedUp event, where your API will be publishing/subscribing to the information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The `channels` object describes the userSignedUp event, where your API will be sending/receiving the information and the associated message definition.
```

### Step 3: Define Messages and Schemas

Finally, you'll define the messages and their payload. The payload defines how the event would look line that will be sent from the channel.

```
components:
  messages:
    userSignedUp:
      payload:
        type: object
        properties:
          user-id:
            type: integer
            description: "id of the user"
          user-email:
            type: string
            description: "email of the user"
```

In the above snippet:

- The userSignedUp message is defined which describes the payload of the event.
  
- The `payload` property defines the content of the event using AsyncAPI schemas. It means that your event payload should contain a user-id which is an integer and a user-email property which is a string property

## Summary

> In this tutorial, you learned how to create an AsyncAPI specification document via a real-world example. This tutorial is just a starting point; you'll need to add your own business logic to it. Take some time to play with it. There are still lots of things to be covered, but the intent of this tutorial is to make it simple for you to get an idea of the potential.

Reviewer: Quick suggestion, how about you lead the readers to what's next or what else they can dive into instead of just saying "There are still lot of things to be covered". Just a thought. You could nudge the readers with few things they can further study or try.

[Publish/Subscribe (Pub/Sub)](/docs/tutorials/getting-started/event-driven-architectures#publishersubscriber) is a typical model in EDAs, providing flexible coupling between publishers and subscribers. In this model, the publishers of event notifications act as publishers and the consumers act as corresponding subscribers.

## Creating AsyncAPI document for Kafka

In this section, you’ll create an AsyncAPI document to describe the `UserSignUp` API. The same document can be later used to generate code and documentation as per requirement. 

### Define AsyncAPI Version, API Information, and Server

Initially, you need to describe your application, including the AsyncAPI version, the info about the document, and the server your application is based upon.

```

> asyncapi: "3.0.0"
> info:
>   title: "User Signup API"
>   version: "1.0.0"
>   description: |
>     The API notifies you whenever a new user signups into the application
> servers:
>   kafkaServer:
>     host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
>     description: "Kafka Server"
>     protocol: kafka

Reviewer 3: Double quotes are not needed when the value is a string. You're using them sometimes and sometimes not so I'd rather avoid using them to improve the reading experience.

```suggestion
asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: User Signup API
  version: 1.0.0
  description: The API notifies you whenever a new user signs up in the application.
servers:
  kafkaServer:
    host: test.mykafkacluster.org:8092
    description: Kafka Server
    protocol: kafka
```

```

In the above snippet:

- The `asyncapi` field indicates that you are using AsyncAPI version 3.0.0.
  
- The `info` field provides information about the API. Here the the APIs `title`, `version`, and `description` are being defined.
  
- The `server` field specifies the details of the server, including the `host`, `description`, and the `protocol` that is being used i.e. Kafka.

### Define Channels and Operations

> Next, let's move on to the channels and operations section. The channel addresses are the topics in Kafka, they are the routes to which your API will be sending/receiving. The Operations section is used to describe a specific operation like how the services must interact with the channels.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, let's move on to the `channels` and `operations` section. The channel addresses are the topics in Kafka, they are the routes to which your API will be sending/receiving. The `operations` section is used to describe how your application interacts with the channels.
```

```
operations:
  onUserSignedUp:
    action: receive
    channel:

>       $ref: "#/channels/userSignedUp"

Reviewer 3: Either choose single quotes or double quotes. In general, in YAML, we use single quotes.

```suggestion
      $ref: '#/channels/userSignedUp'
```

channels:
  userSignedUp:

>     description: When the User Signs up

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    description: This channel contains a message per each user who signs up in our application.
```

>     address: 'user_signedup'

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    address: user_signedup
```

    messages:
      userSignedUp:

>         $ref: "#/components/messages/userSignedUp"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
```

```

In the above snippet:

> - The `operation` object specifies onUserSignedUp operation. The `action` property suggests that the operation will be receiving the information. The `channel` property points to the channel where the operation occurs.

Reviewer 3: There's no such thing as an `operation` object so instead I suggest this alternative explanation:

```suggestion
- The `onUserSignedUp` object specifies the nature of the operation. The `action` property indicates that our application will be receiving the information. The `channel` property points to the channel where the operation occurs.
```

> - The `channels` object describes the userSignedUp event, where your API will be sending/receiving the information and the associated message definition. The `address` field represents the path of the channel and the `messages` field describes the structure of the message. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The `userSignedUp` object inside `channels` describes the Kafka topic where our application will be receiving the information and the associated message definition. The `address` field represents the actual name of the Kafka topic. The `messages` field describes the expected messages in that topic. 
```

### Define Messages and Schemas

Finally, you'll define the messages and their payload. The payload defines how the event would look line that will be sent from the channel.

```
components:
  messages:
    userSignedUp:
      payload:
        type: object
        properties:
          user-id:
            type: integer
            description: "id of the user"
          user-email:
            type: string

>             description: "email of the user"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            description: id of the user
          user-email:
            type: string
            description: email of the user
```

```

In the above snippet:

> - The userSignedUp message is defined which describes the payload of the event.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The `userSignedUp` message is defined which describes the payload (content) of the message.
```

> - The `payload` property defines the content of the event using AsyncAPI schemas. It means that your event payload should contain a user-id which is an integer and a user-email property which is a string property

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The `payload` property defines the content of the message using [JSON Schema](https://json-schema.org/). It means that your message payload should contain a `user-id` which is an integer and a `user-email` property which is a string property.
```

## Summary

> In this tutorial, you learned how to create an AsyncAPI specification document for Kafka. You generated an AsyncAPI document which defines the structure of the Kafka messages in a machine readabe format which makes it easier to maintian event driven architecture. Try adding your own buisness logic and playing around with it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you learned how to create an AsyncAPI specification document for Kafka. You generated an AsyncAPI document that defines the structure of the Kafka messages in a machine-readable format which makes it easier to maintain event-driven architecture. Try adding your own business logic and playing around with it.
```

---

> title: Configuring Schemas for Kafka messages using AsyncAPI

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
title: Create AsyncAPI Document for applications interacting with Kafka
```

Next, let's move on to the `channels` and `operations` section. The channel addresses are the topics in Kafka, they are the routes to which your API will be sending/receiving. The `operations` section is used to describe how your application interacts with the channels.

```
operations:
  onUserSignedUp:
    action: receive
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/userSignedUp'

channels:
  userSignedUp:
    description: This channel contains a message per each user who signs up in our application.
    address: user_signedup
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
```

In the above snippet:

- The `onUserSignedUp` object specifies the nature of the operation. The `action` property indicates that our application will be receiving the information. The `channel` property points to the channel where the operation occurs.
  
- The `userSignedUp` object inside `channels` describes the Kafka topic where our application will be receiving the information and the associated message definition. The `address` field represents the actual name of the Kafka topic. The `messages` field describes the expected messages in that topic. 

> ### Define messages and its schemas

Reviewer 4: It sounds like we need to add clarification that there are multiple schema options; we can have this tutorial stay as is, focused on AsyncAPI schema.

We can have the following tutorial then take up where this one left off and show how to use Avro schema instead and optimize further.
